So let's talk about that concept of
sort of locally patching imported types.
And we're gonna take advantage
of the kind of the type
acquisition step by step
process that we described,
where you'd first look at specific paths.
The same way that we use
that beta chat-stdlib file.
We can use that same
approach to sort of override
the types of things that we
import from other places.
So, I've created here,
and please do the same,
a folder called types in
the root of my chat project.
And I'm gonna go into my tsconfig.
And in here, now, you might wonder,
do I want it to be a type root?
Or do I want it to be something different?
I'm gonna actually use
paths with this folder.
So what we're saying here?
If we think back to
the order of precedence for
type acquisition, paths is number one.
It is the first place
TypeScript will look.
If we define this as a type root, we might
have other type roots, the @types folder.
And this gives us a strictly higher
priority way of describing types.
So let's go ahead and look at,
we're gonna make a little change here.
We're gonna go to our networking.ts
file after we save this tsconfig,
networking.ts.
And instead of consuming this
HTTPError class from this
local module here,
this is a CommonJS file.
Just an example of CommonJS
interoping nicely with TypeScript,
everything is compiling fine here.
But instead of consuming that,
let's consume it from a different module,
http-error.
That is a real thing that I've
set up in the package.json.
Just to show you that, Here it is.
Don't worry about where this dependency
is coming from, we will get there.
But just know that you should think of
it as being in your Node modules folder,
almost.
And if I hover over this, it says it can't
find a declaration file for this module.
And because of that, HTTPError,
it doesn't have any type.
So it's implicitly in any, which means,
down here when we're calling it,
I'm getting no help making sure
that I'm using this correctly.
So what we would do here is we would say,
I wanna fix this locally.
I don't wanna go through creating
a new definitely-typed package.
And figuring out how to add that,
and publishing it, and
then pulling that version down.
You wanna resolve this
as quickly as possible,
this is part of operating at scale.
We can't wait for
pull requests to be merged.
We wanna fix changes locally, and
then out of band, so we unblock ourselves.
And then we can get it patched,
bring it in, remove the workaround.
And we've gotta keep everything
working productively here.
So, okay, in our types folder,
we're gonna create a declaration file,
http-error.d.ts.
The name is important.
And here, we're gonna say export class
HTTPError, and I'm gonna save.
And I'm gonna restart TypeScript.
Hey, look at that in our tooltip,
class HTTPError.
So, effectively, what we've done is,
in the tsconfig,
because of what we added to paths,
whenever we're trying to acquire types for
a module, the first place TypeScript
will look is in our types folder.
And it will try to find
a module in here that
matches what is being
attempted as an import.
And if something is found there,
those are the types it uses.
If something is not found there that
matches the name of the package,
we keep looking.
We go into Node modules, we go and
look at the @types folder in Node modules.
I could demonstrate some
harmful stuff we could do here.
It's, say, react.d.ts, and
then we're gonna say,
export a Banana, and save.
And now all of our UI code is gonna
be very unhappy, or it should be.
Look, React.PropsWithChildren,
it doesn't exist.
But, sure enough, React.Banana is there.
So we'll delete that file,
that's probably not what we want.
But that's an example of us
superseding what's in Node modules.
It's important to be able to do
this to keep your team unblocked.
Because you will find errors in types,
and you will need to patch things up.
And this is a great way of doing it,
checking it in, and
then be a good JavaScript
ecosystem citizen.
See if you can get it pulled
into where it belongs.
But that's not on the critical path,
that's not part of what needs to
happen before you're unblocked.
So we're not quite done yet.
If we look down,
now that we have type checking,
it's not just a zero-argument
constructor situation here.
We need that response to come in
as an argument, and then a string.
So we can just say constructor response.
And then a description, that's a string.
And there we go, error's gone.
That's where our type
information's gotta go.
If I do Cmd + click on this,
it'll just take me to this file.
That's where the types are coming from.
So two different ways we can
deal with pure type information.
We looked at interfaces, which we model
as something that's part of our app.
And then this,
I would say it's not part of our app.
I mean, it's part of our repo.
And it's necessary in order for
our app to compile, but
nothing about what you see here will be
something that you'd ship with your app.
And this is why I put it
in two different places.
It makes it very clear, things that
you will distribute or deploy, versus
things that are sort of type information
that's just required in order to compile.
And run yarn type check, make sure we're
in a good state, and then we're good.
We're getting there.
Let's check those app,
the error in src/types,
time to kick ESLint.
Messages are declared here.
TeamSelector.test, our tests have errors,
okay, let's see.
Messages is missing in this type.
Okay, TeamSelector,
what I would do here is I'd pick,
cuz I don't wanna change my
tests just to make this pass.
I'm just trying to describe my code,
I don't wanna alter tests.
I should be able to not touch
the tests and get this code change.
So let's look in our
TeamSelector component.
Yep, so here, apparently,
we're gonna do a Pick.
We can even do it this way,
Exclude<keyof Iteam, 'messages'>.
So just to put that on another line.
So we're saying this is a long type here.
I would take feedback in a code
review that this is a very verbose
way of expressing this.
But what we're saying here is, I want
everything on ITeam, except for messages.
And we're having to use Pick and Exclude.
Everything on ITeam except for, this is
the subset of ITeam that is not messages.
That's kind of the way
we're articulating this.
And then it looks like we have
another thing of this nature,
where, We're including id and
username, and the test does not
want to have to include that.
So here we do Pick<IMessage>, we'll just
do this a little more reasonably here.
User or createdAt or body.
Let's make sure there's not one more,
there is.
All right, just for expedience here, I'm
just gonna put messages here, empty array.
One more, we'll fix this the quick and
improper way as well.
And it wants what, id,
username, maybe both.
And this, it wants createdAt.
Yeah, so maybe changing that
contract was not ideal.
But we're getting alerted to it
because TypeScript is doing the type
checking here.
Great.
>> One question in the chat is,
could you have used Omit ITeam, messages?
>> I totally could,
my brain doesn't jump straight to there,
cuz Omit hasn't existed for
a crazy long time.
I'd argue I did use Omit,
I just spelled it out more deliberately.
But yes, absolutely,
that's a more concise way to write it.
It's such a common thing to do that
they gave us a utility type for it.